# nomenclature - Working with IAMC-style data templates

Copyright 2021 IIASA

This repository is licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); see
the [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

[![license](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-black)](https://github.com/IAMconsortium/nomenclature/blob/main/LICENSE)
[![python](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.8_|_3.9-blue?logo=python&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/IAMconsortium/nomenclature)
[![Code style:
black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/psf/black)
[![pytest](https://github.com/IAMconsortium/nomenclature/actions/workflows/pytest.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/IAMconsortium/nomenclature/actions/workflows/pytest.yml)
[![ReadTheDocs](https://readthedocs.org/projects/docs/badge)](https://nomenclature-iamc.readthedocs.io)

## Overview

This package facilitates working with data templates that follow the format developed by
the [Integrated Assessment Modeling Consortium (IAMC)](https://www.iamconsortium.org).
It supports validation of scenario data and region processing, which consists of
renaming and aggregation of model "native regions" to "common regions" used in a
project. It requires Python version >= 3.8.

The full documentation is hosted on [Read the
Docs](https://nomenclature-iamc.readthedocs.io/)

## The pyam package

<img src="https://github.com/IAMconsortium/pyam/blob/main/doc/logos/pyam-logo.png"
width="133" height="100" align="right" alt="pyam logo" />

This package is intended to complement the Python package **pyam**, an open-source
community toolbox for analysis & visualization of scenario data. That package was
developed to facilitate working with timeseries scenario data conforming to the format
developed by the IAMC . It is used in ongoing assessments by the IPCC and in many model
comparison projects at the global and national level, including several Horizon 2020
projects.

[Read the docs](https://pyam-iamc.readthedocs.io) for more information!

## Getting started

To install this package, please install Python version 3.8 or higher. Nomenclature is on
To install the latest release of the package, please use the following command:

```bash
pip install nomenclature-iamc
```

Alternatively, it can also be installed directly from source:

```bash
pip install -e git+https://github.com/IAMconsortium/nomenclature#egg=nomenclature
```

Then, open a Python console and import a suitable nomenclature structure from a folder
and run the following code to inspect the variables defined in the nomenclature.

```python
import nomenclature
project = nomenclature.DataStructureDefinition("path/to/definition/folder")
project.variable
```

## Acknowledgement

<img src="./doc/source/_static/open_entrance-logo.png" width="202" height="129"
align="right" alt="openENTRANCE logo" />

This package is based on the work initially done in the [Horizon 2020
openENTRANCE](https://openentrance.eu) project, which aims to  develop, use and
disseminate an open, transparent and integrated  modelling platform for assessing
low-carbon transition pathways in Europe.

Refer to the [openENTRANCE/nomenclature](https://github.com/openENTRANCE/nomenclature)
repository for more information.

<img src="./doc/source/_static/EU-logo-300x201.jpg" width="80" height="54" align="left"
alt="EU logo" /> This project has received funding from the European Unionâ€™s Horizon
2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 835896.
